

THE MANUAL FOR THE 'DUNGEON MASTER'
Written by JWX from 777-TEAM

BROUGHT TO YOU BY SEWER SOFTWARE
CHECKED AND CORRECTED BY SEWER RAT


CHAPTER-1: CHOOSING YOUR CHAMPION

Beyond the entrance to the dungeon lies The Hall of Champions, containing
the souls of the champions who perished in the Dungeon. Before you can 
begin your quest, you must choose a party of no more than four of these 
champions to lead into the dungeon. 

The champions are imprisoned in mirrors along with their clothing, weapons
and other possessions. To free a champion from the mirror you must move 
the mouse pointer to the mirror and press the left button. This brings 
forth a menu which describes the champion's qualities and shows his or her
possessions. 

Each champion is distinquished by the physical attribtes of health, 
stamina and Mana (magical energy). The value of each of these attributes 
is shown in the lower left corner of the menu as two numbers separated by 
a /. The first number shows the current level of each attribute. The 
second number is the maximum level. The current level will rise to the 
maximum level as the champion rests and will fall as the champion suffers
injury, wields weapons, or casts spells. Each champion also has three bar
graphs at the top of the screen which show the current values for health,
stamina, and Mana as a percentage of the maximum.

The champion's possessions are shown as pictures inside light grey boxes. 
The boxes represent space in the champion's backpack or sheath or other 
places to keep an object. You may pick up an object when the mouse pointer
is shown as an empty hand by moving the hand pointer over it and pressing
the left mouse button. Notice that the hand pointer changes to resemble 
the object picked up. Now you can move this object to another location and
place it there by pressing the left mouse button again. If the new 
location is already filled by another object, pressing the left mouse 
button will swap the object you are holding with the object there. Some 
boxes represent places where only certain objects will fit. For example, 
only shoes will fit on your champion's feet. 

There are two special locations shown as an eye and a mouth. Objects may 
be examined by moving them over the eye and holding down the left mouse 
button. Objects are eaten by moving them to the mouth and pressing the 
left mouse button; however, only certain object are edible.

A champion may have developed skills as a Fighter, Wizard, Ninja or 
Priest. You can review these skills by touching the eye with an empty hand
and holding down the left mouse button. Fighters are skilled users of 
heavy weapons and generally have greater physical strenght than othe r 
champions. Ninjas are skilled users of precision weapons and are also 
noted for their thiefly skills and abilities. Wizards can marshall the 
forces of the magical realm for combat. And Priests are masters of the 
healing arts, being able to use their magical energy to create restoring 
potions and other remedies. 

Champions also have the additional attributes of strenght, dexterity, 
wisdom, vitality, anti-magic and anti-fire. You may review these by 
touching the eye with an empty hand and holding down the left mouse 
button. 

Strenght increases the striking poewr of the weapon and also allows the
champion to carry greater loads (such as armour). Dexterity is the precision
with which a champion can wield a weapon and dodge blows. Ninjas possess
higher dexterity than other champions. Wisdom affects a champion's ability
to learn spells and recover Mana. Vitality governs how fast a champion
recovers from wounds and resists injury. Anti-magic helps resist magic
attacks and anti-fire helps resist injury from fire.

If you resurrect a champion, he or she will return to life exactly as they
were before death. Resurrected champions remember all the skills and
abilities of their past life. If you reincarnate a champion, they will lose
their past memories and skills and take on a new identity. However, these
skills are converted to greater physical attributes.

Regardless of whether you choose to reincarnate or resurrect a champion,
each champion will be able to learn new skills or improve on existing ones.
Fighters and Ninjas gain more fighting ability by fighting. Priests and
Wizards gain more magical skill by learning and casting spells. Champions
can specialize in one skill, or learn a mix of all four skill areas.




CHAPTER-2: CHOOSING THE PARTY LEADER

When you have selected at least one champion, the mouse pointer will change
from an arrow pointer into a hand pointer whenever it moves into the dungeon
view or in near an object box. The hand pointer represents the hand of the
party leader. The leader's name is always shown in a different color at the
top of the screen.

The leader is your direct link to the dungeon. The leader can pick up things
your party finds, open and close doors, or do other actions in the dungeon.
To select a new leader, move the mouse pointer until it points to the name
of the new leader and then press the left mouse button.

To pick up or put down objects, point with the mouse and press the left
mouse button. You will not be able to pick up all the objects you cansee in
the dungeon, Some objects are too far away.

The leader can also throw objects. To throw an object, pick it up and move
it to about eye level and then press the left mouse button. The object will
travel as far as the leader can throw. Remember, it is the leader who is
throwing, and gains throwing practice.

The leader's hand can also move levers, press buttons, or operate other
controls found in the dungeon. To operate a control, the party must stand
directly in front of the wall that contains it. You will not be able to
reach the control from any other position. Some things, such as locks, may
require a special object, such as a key, to operate them. For example, to
open a lock you must pick up the right key, move it over the lock, and then
press the left mouse button.  




CHAPTER-3: OPERATING THE GAME

The game screen is divided into three main areas (examine the picture on
this diskette). Information about your champions in shown at the top. Menus
for controlling the game are shown on the right; and the large area at left
center shows either a view into the dungeon or the inventory for a
particular champion.

The four pictures on the screen's right upper corner show a top view of the 
champion's in the dungeon. Each picture indicates the position and facing of 
the champion. The top of the screen is the forward direction. Notice that
the color of each champion's picture matches the color of his or her bar
graph.

It is important tp pay attention to how champions are positioned. Champions
using swords, or other swung weapons, must be adjacent to threats they are
attacking or their attacks will not reach.

To switch the position of two champions, move the mouse pointer over one
member of the party and press the left mouse button. The mouse pointer
changes to become the champion's picture. Now, move this figure over the
picture of the champion you wish to swap with. Press the left mouse button
again to make the change.

All champions normally face forward. However, when threatned, champions will
turn to face the threat. 

Under these figure lays the name of any object held by a champion shows
here.

Under that name are the six movement buttons which turn and move the party
inside the dungeon. The twisted arrows on the upper line turn the party by
90 degrees without moving in any direction. The left and right arrows move
the party left and right by one step without changing their facing. the up
and down arrows move the party forward and backward one step.

You may move or turn the party by placing the mouse arrow over one of the
screen buttons and pressing the left mouse button.




CHAPTER-4: CONTROLLING YOUR CHAMPIONS

Each champion is represented bya box at the top of the screen which shows
their name, their status and what they are holding in their hands.

The three bar graphs show, from left to right, the champion's health,
stamina and Mana. When a champion is injured the heath graph will drop. When
it reaches zero, the champion will die. When stamina drops below half the
champion's carrying capacity will drop. The Mana graph will drop as the
champion uses up magical energy to cast spells.

Each champion has two hands. The hand on the left in the "ready" hand. It
holds ammunition for range weapons such as bows or crossbows. A range weapon
will not work unless the ready hand holds the ammunition it needs. After
firing a range weapon, the ready hand will automatically draw new ammunition
from the quiver.

The hand on the right is the "action" hand in which the champion normally
holds a weapon or other "action" objects. An action object has special
abilities. For example, a sword can thrust or a wand may cast magical power.
Note: some actions that a weapon or object can do may be beyond the current
abilities of a particular champion. For example, a novice fighter may need
to practice swinning a sword before he or she can advance to parrying or
thrusting. Also, some objects, such as a bow, may require the champion to
have another object, such as an arrow, in the ready hand.

Each champion has an action button which shows a picture of the action
object the champion is holding in their action hand. You press the action
button to make the champion do something, such as fighting, with their
action object. Note that not all objects are action objects. The action
button will be blank if the champion in holding an object which is not an
action object. Also, all champions have actions they can perform with bare
hands. The action button will show an empty hand when the champion's action
hand is empty. When you press a champion's action button you will see the
champion's action menu for that object. Note that it can vary between
champions.




CHAPTER-5: CASTING SPELLS

Every member of the dungeon party can learn to cast magical spells. However,
casting spells requires skill and practice. Spellcasting draws upon magical
energy, or Mana, stored in the champion's body. Beginning magic users can
hold only limited quantities of Mana and thus can only can low level spells.
But, with practice, the novice spellcaster can progress to higher levels.

The spellcasting box is above the action buttons on the right side of the
screen. It is actually divided into the three different lines or parts. To
cast a spell, you must first select which champion will cast it. The top of
this menu is a series of selector buttons for each champion. Select a new
spellcaster with the mouse pointer and press the left mouse button. The name
of the new spellcaster will then show on the first line of the spellcasting
box.

The second line in the spellcasting box includes the symbolswhich represent
the basic magic syllables of a spell. To prepare a spell, the magic user
recites the syllables that make up the spell by moving the mouse pointer, in
turn, over each symbol and pressing left mouse button. As the syllables are
recited they appear inside the cast button on the third line, which is the 
button directly below the symbol buttons. Each symbol recited drains the
Mana level of the spellcaster. Note that some symbols require more Mana to 
recite than others. If the champion's Mana drops too low, he or she may not
be able to recite all symbols.

Pressing the recant arrow causes the last syllable uttered to be called back
and removed from the spell. This may be used to correct mistakes. However,
the Mana expended in voicing the syllable is lost.

Once a spell is formed, pressing the cast button, which is the t hird line,
will cast it forth. A champion may attempt any spell, but beginning
spellcasters may not have enough Mana to cast more advanced spells. Also,
some spells only work if the champion casting it has attained the proper
experience level. Other spell may require the caster to hold a special
object in one of their hands. For example, a spell to create a healing
potion requires an empty flask.




CHAPTER-6: INVENTORY

(Examine the picture 'bout DUNGEON MASTER's inventory!)
Each champion has an inventory of items that he or she carries. To select 
the inventory of a particular champion, move the mouse pointer to the name
of the champion shown at the top of the screen and press the RIGHT mouse
button. Press the right mouse button again to return to the dungeon view.
You can also fo go from one champion's inventory to another by moving the
puose pointer to a new name and pressing the right button again. This is an
easy way to transfer objects between champions.

Party members may carry objects found in the dungeon. Places witch can hold
an object are shown as a box. Some of these boxes represent things which a
champion wears. For example, shoes or boots may be placed on a champion's
feet.

The pouch is a handy spot for small objects.

The quiver carries arrows or thrown weapons. The champion's ready hand can
automatically draw objects from here to reload during combat. Note that
swords and some other weapons will only fit in the first slot.

The backpack is general-purpose place for storing objects. It has enough
room for seventeen objects of any size.

Should a champion become injured, the box around the injured body part will
change to red. Injuries affect the champion's abilities in ways that are
related to the location ot the wound. Injuries can be cured by drinking
healing potions.

Object can be examine by moving them to the eye and pressing the left mouse
button. This will show the object's weight and can sometimes reveal other
things about it. What is revealed depends upon the skills of the champion
examining it. Touching the eye with an empty hand shows the champion's
current attributes and skill levels. The eye works for as long as the left
mouse button is held down. A red box around the eye indicates that one of
the champion's attributes has recently changed.

The champion can eat food or drink water or potions by moving them to the
mouth and pressing the left mouse button. Only edible objects may be
consumed.

The levels of health, stamina and Mana show more precisely the values
indicated by a champion's ba graph for the same things. The left value
indicates the current level and the right value indicates the current
maximum for the champion. Note: as champions advence in level, the maximum
value will increase. If the Mana maximum level increase, for example, this
would mean that the champion has more Mana available for spell casting.

The LOAD value printed before the slash is the amount of weight the champion
is carrying, represented in kilograms. The second value is the maximum
weight tha the champion can currently carry. If this line is printed in red,
then that champion is overloaded and will move more slowly through the
dungeon. Note that the party moves only as fast as its slowest member.

Pressing the ZZZ button will put the entire party to sleep. Sleeping is a
fast way to rest and recover lost Mana, health and stamina. The party will
sleep until you press the "wake up" button or they are roused by an attack.

You may exit the inventory by pressing the right mouse button, or by moving
the mouse pointer over the exit box ("X")and pressing the left mouse button.

You can examine the contents of chests by bringing up a champion's inventory
menu and placing the chest into the champion's action hand. This opens the
chest and shows you what's inside. As long as the chest remains in the
action hand, you can add or remove objects.

Pressing the figure of the diskette next to ZZZ button will freeze the game
and bring up the save-game menu. If you can't finish the game in one
sitting (JWX's note: is this A JOKE!?), you may save the current game and
resume play later. Saving the game requires a blank formatted or unformatted
disk. Unformatted disk must be formatted before the game can be saved on
them. NOTE: There is a special format button provided for this!




CHAPTER-7: GAME HINTS

Unlike other dungeon adventure games you may have played, Dungeon Master is
a real-time adventure. This means that, just as in real time, th e action
doesn't stop while you figure out what to do. Because of this, preparation
is all important. Your champions should have their weapons out and ready
before they are surprised by hostile creatures. Remember, weapons are only
useful if placed in your champion's action hand, and certain weapons, such
as crossbows, require another object, such as an arrow, to be held in the
ready hand. (See "Controlling Your Champions" in an earlier section.) If you
have extra arrows, they should be kept in your champion's quiver. You
champion will then automatically reload after firing the arrow in his or her
hand.

Practice your spells when you have the chance, and learn to prepare useful
potions in advance. The more you practice your spells, the faster your
wizards and priests will grow in abilities. Don't be discourage if your
spells don't work reliably at first. Start by attempting spell with lower
power symbols (JWX's NOTE: examine the picture from the disk called
DM-Spells!). These spells are easier for novices to cast and work more
reliable. However, even if your champion's spell fail, the practice advances
his or her level of skill. Also, remember the division of skills for magic
users: creating potions and invoking magical defences requires priestly
skills, while most other magical skills are the domain of the wizard.

Fighters and ninjas need practice, too, it they are to get better at
fighting. Try to choose your fights so that your champions have the
advantage. This lets your champions gain fighting exparience with less risk
of dying. When facing danger, put your strongest champions in front and give
them the best weapons. If a champion is using a swung weapon, such as a
sword, he or she must be adjacent to the creature or the attack will not
reach. Watch out for attacks from the rear and from the sides, and try to
keep a retreat path open so you can fall back and let your champions
recover. Here is where a few potions or spells prepared in advance can be
real lifesavers! And, if the going gets too rough, run away.

Learn to be careful observer. Sometimes even the tiniest detail can be
important. Perhaps a small but useful object lies just under your nose, or
is hidden beneath another object you ignored. Did you notice the level or
hidden switch on the wall you just passed? Sounds can provide important
hints too. Did you detect the telltale click of the hidden trap you just
stepped on? Or did you hear the distant rattle of a door opening or closing?

Sometimes it may be helpful to compile an accurate map of your surroundings.
Maps can help you locate areas of the dungeon you haven't explore yet, or
avoid reexploring a place you've already been. Also, a well drawn map can be
an invaluable aid to a safe retreat from danger. A map can also help locate
traps or solve tricky puzzles; but be warned, even a map can sometimes
deceive.

Conserve your resources whenever possible. Torches only burn when held in a
hand. So keep extra torches in a champion's backpack until they are needed.
Remember to get fresh water whenever it is available, and grab as much food
sa you can get your hands on. Sometimes your only source of food may be the
creatures you find and kill, so learn where they hide so you can get to them
when you need them. Mana is also an important resource. If you have
available Mana, you should use it to prepare potions, heal injured
champions, or ready attack spells in advance. And, as mentioned above,
practice makes perfect.




CHAPTER-8: THE STORY OF THE ORIGINS OF MAGICK

What knowledge of Magick we have conforms not to the rules of science, but 
to the arcane skills and unordered ways of art. Be therefore warned that the
path to knowledge is not an easy road.

It is said that once, long ago, there was no Magick in the world save the
ultimate Magick which giveth life. Later, mankind learned the use of Magick
through the control of Mana. This mystical energy is the source of all
Magickal power. Those skilled in the art draw its essence from all things
and feel its power as they would feel the wind blow or see the shun shine.
But to those unskilled it is unseen, unfelt, unknown.

Before you gain knowledge of Magick you must gain knowledge of Mana.
However, this talent can only be a gift gained from another skilled in the
arts. For it is truth of Magick that you must know Mana to gain Mana. Once
gained, the knowledge lasts forever. Thsu have I and others likewise passed
the knowledge through generations. With practice and time your own skills
can become as great as any who have lived.

Know ye that the power of Mana is a power of nature harnessed by the mind.
What the mind can conjure, the power of Magick will carry out. Yet, this
power is not gained by mere imagining. It requires a knowledge of the true
order of things. Out mind must do more than imagine fire to summon it. It
must look beyond and see instead the true nature of fire. From this need was
born the art of spellcasting.

A spell as a visualization and recitation that focuses the mind on a
specific task and channels Mana to carry it out. A spell is made of symbols
which have both a form and a name. The beginning spellcaster learns to
pronounce the name as the symbol is seen in the mind. Each symbol must be
recited in the proper order to produce the intended effect. However, Magick
is not commanded easily. Even with sufficient Mana and proper recitation, a
spell may fizzle if the spellcaster lacks the experience to cast it. To gain
experience, the spellcaster should first master the simpler spells before
attempting those more difficult.

The symbols of Magick are divided into the four known influences of POWER,
ELEMENT, FORM and ALIGNMENT (JWX's NOTE: examine the picture called as
DM-Spells from the disk). It is said that other influences were once known,
but only these four are remembered today. Each influence is controlled by
six symbols which represent the six basic orders of all things. The six
orders can also be visualized as combining the four orders of the material
plane with the two orders of the ethereal realm. each order of each
influence is represented by a specific spell-sound and symbol.

Lest you be too quick to overstep your abilities, know that each symbol
recited draws from and depletes the store of Mana carried in your body. The
amount of Mana required depends upon the syllables that make up the spell.
The six orders of each influence require differing amounts of Mana to
invoke. For the influence of power, the weakest order is the syllable LO,
and the most powerful is MON. Thus, LO requires the least Mana to cast, and
MON the most.

In time, your body restores Mana expended in casting a spell by drawning new
Mana from the world around you. As you gain experience in your craft your
body will learn to store more and more Mana. With patience and practice, a
skilled user can command enough Mana to attempt the most powerful spells.

All spells commence with the invocation of power. The influence of power
determines the strengh of a spell. Choosing a higher power symbol increases
the power of the final spell, but also increases the amount of Mana required
to invoke other symbols.

After power, the influence of element is called upon to give substance to
the spell. Element determines the fundamental effect of the spell. Many
useful spells require only power and element. The Magick torch spell,
usually an apprentice's first, invokes first power and then calls upon the
element FUL to bring light from fire. As the novice gains experience with
this spell, he can attempt higher and higher power symbols giving greater
and more steady illumination.

Adding the influence of form to a spell channels the spell into a specific
direction. The invocation of the form KATH, as an example, imparts explosive
force to the selected element. Form is not required for all spells, but its
influence greatly increases the versality of a spell.

The influence if alignment cannects nature with the world of man: his
possessions and his concepts of good and evil. Thus, these influences are
less predictable and require a great deal of Mana to control. The novice
would be well adviced to leave this influence to the master and the master
would be well adviced to avoid this influence whenever possible.

As with all skills, only practice will quide the practioner to higher levels
of proficiency. And, only caution will spare him from foolish mistakes.

 	SOME USEFUL SPELLS FOR THE "DUNGEON MASTER" GAME:

Attack Spells:    1. Poison Cloud 
OH + YA
2. Ghost Killer 
DES + EW
3. Fireball
FUL + IR
4. Lightning 
OH + KATH + RA
5. Cast a Poison Cloud
ZO + VEN
6. Poison Spell 
DES + VEN

Defence Spells:   1. Shield Spell 
YA + BRO
2. Fire Shield 
FUL + BRO + NETA

Potions: 
1. Stamina 
YA
2. Health 
VI
3. Strenght 
* FUL + BRO + KU 
4. Dexterity 
 OH + BRO + ROS
5. Wisdom
* YA + BRO + DAIN
6. Vitality 
* YA + BRO + NETA
7. To Cure Poison 
VI + BRO
8. To Heal Wounds 
VI

General Spells:   1. Open Door 
ZO
2. Light Spell 
FUL
3. Longer Light 
OH + IR + RA
4. Footprints 
YA + BRO + ROS

Some others: 
1. Magical Sight 
OH + EW + RA
2. Hides From Monsters 
OH + EW + SAR
3. Frees Power Gems 
ZO + KATH + RA
4. Leaves A Trail Of
Poisonous Footprints    YA + BRE + ROS

NOTES!  -Spells marked with asterix (*) are temporary spells!
-Most of the Potion Spells need an empty flask!!!

  Here're some general hints for your playing the game thru:

1.)   As you are picking up the crew members in the
beginning be sure that at least three of them as some
Mana Power!

2.)   Whenever one of your party has a full supply of Mana,
use some, either to make a potions, or cast a light 
spell, even if it is not needed.

3.)   Always have a full compliment of potions ready made
for that odd emergency that is lurking round the next
corner.

4.)   Don't be in a hurry to use weapons with special powers.
5.)   Be patient when in combat. Retreat, quaff some potions
and try again. The nastiest ones you can kill by 
letting them follow you under a gate or a door and 
then close it to smash the monsters.

6.)   Don't eat or drink when the relevant scroll bars are
close to maximum; unless you are standing by a water
fountain. Food can be pretty scarce later in the 
game.

7.)   Don't be stopped by closed doors with no keyholes or
buttons, messages that you cannot pass, etc. Nearly
always you can simply chop it down or use an Open
Door spell.



This DOC was written by JWX from the 777-team and brought to you 
by SEWER SOFTWARE in this second ST DOC DISK. Check the picture on 
this disk for the representation of the symbols (choose 'Dungeon 
Master Pic.' from the main menu. For more hints and tips on 
Dungeon Master, refer to the first DOC DISK, and if you are one of 
the diminishing minority not lucky enough to possess a copy of the 
1st DOC DISK, write to us at the following address with a disk 
(preferably with something new on it) and we will send you a copy 
immediately.