*******FRED

Voilà une doc ( :(en Anglais...)

Mr Nours.


SEWER SOFTWARE presents a MEDUSA doc.....

                                 FRED (SIR FRED)

1.BACKGROUND
Our hero, Sir FRED is a noble and valiant knight who, like any
self-respecting hero, is in love with a beautiful damsel to whom he
has sworn everlasting fidelity.
But let`s speak about her: of course, she  is very beautiful, VERY
beautiful and that is why Sir FRED is in love with her. He is
passionately in love with her, he accompanies her in the sunny fields
and shady forests for long hours, holding her hand. During these
marvellous moments, they could have kissed each other with passion
(before the end) and had innumerable children at the end (of the film
of course).

But they hadn`t reckoned with the evil ULTIMOR, an ugly dwarf with
magical powers who didn`t look too kindly on this romantic affair. The
infamous dwarf who didn`t flinch at any evildoings, therefore decided
to use his powers against Sir FRED, jealous of his robust
constitution, his success with the ladies, and above all his human
size. And in two winks of an eye, less than three minutes, he
transforms our superb hero into an ugly half-pint who makes our beauty
flee in disgust. Somewhat horrified by the new appearance of her
prince charming, she abandons Sir FRED in the sunny field and goes
off to drown her sorrows in the arms of another gallant knight.

Sir FRED, after protesting to her to no avail, recovers himself, gets
over his sorrow and on his tiny feet, takes the decision of his life:
to defeat the spell of the abominable ULTIMOR and to win back his
belle.

To succeed, he will have to  recover his physical form and therefore
find the dwarf sorcerer in order to dispel the effects of the evil
curse.

II. AIM OF THE GAME

Your quest therefore consists of taking in hand the young man`s
destiny, guiding his every move and his actions. Your joystick will
replace his arms and legs, the firing button of the joystick his
knives and two-edged sword.

You will have to avoid numerous dangers lying in wait for you, cross
the wood, find the entrance to the dwarf cemetery and the grotto of
the little people.

Magicians, spiders, flying or climbing monsters, as well as the castle
guards, will make life difficult for you. And watchout for the
numerous traps awaiting you that will leave you no longer in the land
of the living.

III. PLAYING SIR FRED
       1. THE LEVELS
The game is composed of several settings (for example the forest, the
ddwarf grotto, etc...).

Each setting is omposed in turn of several levels ( for example: the
forest inludes two woods and a cemetery).

If you are killed, you won`t begin the game again at the beginning but
rather at the first level of the area in whi;ch you are moving
around.

When you have managed to pass all the levels in the same area, a
picture of Sir FRED will appear.

2. GAME LEVELS

Sir FRED moves from right to left and from left to right. When thre
are staircases, you can also move Sir FRED upwards and downwards. To
use the stairways, you simply need to be on the same level as the
staircase and to move towards it.

You can make Sir FRED move around on the three horizontal levels.
These levels are superimposed, giving an impression of depth:

* when Sir FRED moves around on the highest level, this means that he
is in the background.
* in contrast, if he appears on the lowest level, this means that he
is in the foreground.
* if he is on the middle level, this means that he moves around in the
middle of the screen.

To pass from one level to another, move the joystick upwards or
downwards.
On each level, you will come across numerous enemies or obstacles (
stones, bushes, trees, etc...): you will avoid them if you change
levels.

You can only pass from one level to another if there is no obstacle
barring your path. Otherwise you will have to continue on your way.

3. OBJECTS

To pick up an object placed on the floor, you simply pass over it with
your character.

-KEY and PASSAGEWAY to another level:

To finish a level, you must find a key. This will be positioned either
on the ground or hidden on an enemy ( you will therefore have to kill
the enemy to take the key).
When you have picked up this key, look for the passageway (door,
clearing in the forest, portcullis, etc...) opening on to the next
level and move the joystick upwards to enter it.

-APPLE:

Your energy is represented by apples (appearing at the bottom to the

right of the screen).

When you do not jump correctly or are touched by an enemy or by
firing, your energy is reduced ( this reduction is symbolised by a
bitten apple).

To piece it together again, pick up the apples that you will find from
time to time as you progress through the level. You can also make the apple
whole again by using a magic potion (red flask).
You can only have three apples at a time.

-DAGGERS and DOUBLE-EDGED SWORD:

Your weapons consist of a double-edged sword and some daggers. The double-edged
sword is a more powerful weapon than the daggers (very often a single blow from
the double-edged sword will be necessary to kill an enemy whereas you will have
to throw several daggers to arrive at the same result).

To throw a dagger, press the firing button of your joystick.
To use the double-edged sword, press the firing button of your joystick and
move the joystick either to the right or the left depending on your chosen
direction.

You can only have four daggers at a time ( menu at the bottom of the screen).
Each dagger gives you the right to several shots. You can pick up the daggers
placed on the ground.

- MAGIC STAR:

From time to time you will notice a magic star moving at the top of the screen.
If you manage to destroy it, all the enemies to be found on the screen will be
eliminated.
WATCH OUT: You must be on the same level as the star to destroy it.

- MAGIC POTION:

There are three types of magic potions: the brown flask, the blue flask, and
the red flask.
The potion in your possession will be displayed in the center of the screen at
the bottom.

You can only take a single potion at a time.

When you have the brown flask, you can use it at any time by pressing the `F1`
key: you will then become invincible.
The red potion can be activated by pressing the `F3` key: you will then have a
new supply of apples.
The blue potion enables you to use the teletransporters ( to be found in
certain sections of the game). These teletransporters are in fact magic lifts
enabling you to change levels. This potion is automatically used if you try to
take a lift ( it is not necessary to press a key).

- MAGIC BAG:

The magic bag contains either a potion or apples.

4. THE ENEMIES

IMPS
DWARVES
MAGICIANS
KARAKETAS DWARVES
KARAKETAS IMPS
SNAKES
CROWS

And many other enemies, each more monstrous than the last. Its up to you to
discover them!

IV. THE CONTROLS

When you press the ` P ` key of your keyboard, the game goes into PAUSE mode.
To continue playing, press the firing button of your joystick.

The F1 key enables you to use the brown potion (invincibility).

The F3 key enables you to validate the red potion (restores your energy).

You must move Sir FRED with the joystick. Here are the different movements that
you can make with the joystick.

1. FIRING BUTTON NON-ACTIVATED

-To move Sir FRED to the right or the left, move the joystick in the chosen
direction.

-To jump to the right or the left, move the joystick upwards to the right or
upwards to the left.

-When you move the joystick upwards, you change dimensions (upwards). Be
careful that no obstacle is in your way if you want top change dimensions.
When you have the key and you are opposite the passage leading to the next
level, move the joystick upwards to go there.
When yu move the joystick downwards, you move Sir FRED one level lower.

-By moving the joystick downwards to the right (or downwards to the left), you
will make Sir FRED roll (to the right or left).

2, FIRING BUTTON ACTIVATED

- When you move the joystick to the left or right, you give a blow from your
double-edged sword in the direction indicated.

- When you move the joystick in one of the three downward directions, Sir FRED
kneels down. You can then release the firing button of the joystick, and Sir
FRED will remain kneeling.
You can make Sir FRED turn around by moving the joystick to the right or left.
If you press the firing button again, Sir FRED will throw a dagger. To make Sir
FRED stand up again, move the joystick upwards to the right or upwards to the
left.

- To throw a dagger upwards to the right or left, move the joystick in the
chosen direction.

- If you do not select any of the joystick directions, Sir FRED will throw a
dagger horizontally in the direction of his glance.

                      LOADING INSTRUCTIONS

Switch off your Atari. Insert Disk 1 in the drive and switch on your computer.
The game loads automatically.
If you wish to continue loading when the presentation page is displayed on the
screen, press the firing button of your joystick.
When the message `INSERT DISK 2` appears, remove disk 1 and insert disk 2 in
the drive. Then press the firing button of your joystick to continue loading.
WARNING, WARNING, WARNING: Do not touch the keyboard of your computer or the
firing button of your joystick during loading (except when you are asked to).

                               THE END


